---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome"
excerpt: "Welcome"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a fifth year PhD Candidate in Economics and NSF Graduate Research Fellow at Northwestern University. My research is in the fields of Energy and Environmental Economics, Public Economics, and Industrial Organization, focusing on efficiency and equity tradeoffs in energy and environmental policy. 

I will be on the job market during the 2025-2026 academic year. 

You can find my CV <a href="https://jrayl.github.io/files/RaylCV.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.

Email: [johannarayl@u.northwestern.edu](mailto:johannarayl@u.northwestern.edu)


## Job Market Paper
<div class="paper">
  <div class ="paper-title"><a href="https://jrayl.github.io/files/Rayl_Resosudarmo_FuelSubsidies.pdf" target="_blank">Redistribution with Limited Information: Fuel Subsidies and Cash Transfers in Indonesia</a></div>
  <div class="small">with Budy Resosudarmo</div>
  <div class="toggle-link" onclick="toggleAbstract(this)">[Abstract]</div> 
  <div class="abstract">
    In-kind transfers may outperform cash as a means of progressive redistribution when a government has limited data with which to identify poor households. We formulate a model of redistribution with limited information to examine the grounds for one of the most common types of in-kind transfers worldwide: energy subsidies. In our model, a planner with progressive redistributional goals and limited information chooses between cash transfers and nonlinear fuel subsidies. The optimality of a nonlinear fuel subsidy over a targeted cash transfer is determined by the joint distribution of household income, observable characteristics, and household fuel demand. We estimate the primitives of this model for the Indonesian population using rich administrative survey data and variation generated by large fuel policy reforms. We quantify optimal interventions among nonlinear fuel prices, targeted cash transfers, and combinations of the two. Combinations of cash and in-kind programs, involving self-financing fuel pricing policies, outperform single interventions.
  </div>
</div>

## Works in Progress
<div class="paper">
  <div class="paper-title">The Effects and Effectiveness of Emergency Price Controls During Natural Disasters</div>
  <div class="small">with Michael Dinerstein, Nadia Lucas, and Ishan Nath</div>
  <div class="small">(draft coming soon pending disclosure review)</div>
  <div class="toggle-link" onclick="toggleAbstract(this)">[Abstract]</div>
  <div class="abstract">
    Anti-price gouging laws, present in most US states, penalize retailers if they make large price increases to disaster supplies during states of emergency. Price caps during periods of high and inelastic demand may worsen or alleviate shortages of essential supplies — they can decrease the incentive to restock supplies by reducing the resale price at which the new inventory sells, or they can increase the incentive to restock supplies by generating more unmet demand at initial inventory levels. We use retailer scanner data and novel trucking data to estimate the effects of US natural disasters on quantities transacted and prices. We estimate that disasters increase demand for a set of 20 essential goods, with increases in mean quantities transacted but also in the probability of having a stockout. Prices increase, with the largest changes concentrated in a minority of retailers, but we see no effects of anti-price gouging laws on the probability of price hikes. On the supply-side, we see limited evidence of marginal cost increases and we estimate a shift in restocking from the disaster period to the week proceeding it. Motivated by this evidence, we specify a structural model that will evaluate how stringent enforcement of price caps would affect shortages and consumer surplus during disasters. We construct a non-parametric identification argument that combines an instrument for restocking costs with the observed joint distribution of restocking and quantities transacted to recover latent demand and initial inventory levels.
  </div>
</div> 

<div class="paper">
  <div class="paper-title">Paid Maternity Leave and Children's Outcomes in the Long Run</div>
  <div class="small">with Tessa Bonomo</div>
  <div class="small">Approved US Census Bureau project</div>
  <div class="toggle-link" onclick="toggleAbstract(this)">[Abstract]</div>
  <div class="abstract">
    The US is one of few countries worldwide without a national mandate for paid maternity leave, and as such, we know little about the effects of paid leave in this context. The first cases of statewide maternity leave in the U.S. came about somewhat unintentionally through changes in state Temporary Disability Insurance (TDI) in the 1960s and 1970s. Six to seven decades later, we have the opportunity to explore the long run effects of access to paid maternity leave on children, later in their lives. We do so employing a differences-in-discontinuities design around changes in state TDI policies which made disability insurance available for pregnancy. In "first stage" results, we provide new estimates of the effects of paid maternity leave availability on infant birth weights, improving upon existing methodologies estimating the same effect in the literature, and finding much larger positive effects. In a "second stage" exercise, we will link measures of the education and earnings of children with their birthdate records using Census and Numident data to provide the first estimates of the long run impacts of paid maternity leave on children for the US.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="paper">
  <div class="paper-title">Income Downscaling with Nightlights</div>
  <div class="small">with Tamma Carleton and James Rising</div>
</div>

## Working Papers 
<div class="paper">
  <div class="paper-title">
  <a href="https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4907647" target="_blank">Does the Value of Reliability Capitalize in Water Markets?</a>
  </div>
  <div class="small">with Yusuke Kuwayama and Tyler Treakle</div>
</div>


## Published and Accepted Papers
<div class="paper">
  <div class="paper-title">
  <a href="https://jrayl.github.io/files/Dinerstein_etal_NaturalDisasterSupplies.pdf" target="_blank">Private Markets and Public Assistance for Natural Disaster Supplies</a> 
  </div>
  <div class="small">with Michael Dinerstein, Nadia Lucas, and Ishan Nath </div>
  <div class="small"><em>AEA Papers and Proceedings</em></div>
</div>


<style>
  .paper {
    margin-bottom: 20px;
  }
  .paper-title,
  .paper-title a { 
    color:#538c67; /* sage green */
    font-weight: 550;
  }
  .abstract {
    display: none;
    margin-top: 6px;
    font-size: 0.9em;   /* smaller font */
    color: #000;        /* black abstract text */
  }
  .toggle-link {
    font-size: 0.9em;
    color: #999;        /* grey link text */
    cursor: pointer;
    text-decoration: underline;
    margin-top: 4px;
  }
</style>

<script>
  function toggleAbstract(link) {
    const abstract = link.nextElementSibling;
    if (abstract.style.display === "block") {
      abstract.style.display = "none";
    } else {
      abstract.style.display = "block";
    }
  }
</script>

